What is gitHub?

	git version 2.9 
	Gihub is hosting service platform. (gitLab is an alternative platform for github)
	On git we can able to store any type of files by creating repository. 
	It encourages teams to work together to build and edit their code content. 

Create and clone the repository ?

	Login to github account
	top right side in the application we see + symbole where we can add, create new repositories. 
	to clone the git url--> go to the repository where we can find code. click on the code we can able to see HTTPS & SSH Urls.
	Open cmd prompt and enter the command 
	git clone https://github.com/adithyaboga/python.git             (https url form github repository)
	git --version 					(Gives the latest version)
      	Note: Before Opening the cmd prompt check git is installed into your machine. else CMD prompt will not recognize and through the error. 

How to create Branch
 	Open the github repository, the default branch created is master branch. 
	use of creating multiple branches => Do not disturb the master bracnh code. try to copy in sub-branch
				     => users will create sub branches for modification in the code and will try to execute

Git Rebase 
	Its a re-write commit from one branch onto another branch. 
	it is used to merge the history of two branches on a repository 
	

Fork 
	using this fork we can clone our code into our local repository and do the changes accordingly and submit once done 
 
Change the visibility of repository :
	 Goto  settings danger zone we can change the repository visibility. there we can chage from public to private 
Delete the repository 
	Goto settings danger zone we can able to see delete the repository 

Error Handling 
	windows credentials and check the login details properly to avoide errors ( While working on multiple accounts in github)

	

How push code into Git repository 
         	Create our local project in our desktop directed towards a current working directory

Commands 
	git init			==>  ( initialize the repository)
	git add .			==>  (in your bash to add all the files to the given folder.)
	git commit -m "comments "	==>  (which adds the change to the local repository.)
	git status			==> Check the status of the files 
	git remote add origin 'URL'     ==>( where we need to move our local repository contect to the remote repository )
					The HTTPS or URL is copied from the given GitHub account and set the path 
	git remote -version		==> (where it will display the fetch and push origin) 
	git push -u origin master 	==> ( up stream to master branch)
		user name 
		password authentication
	
	git push -f origin master 	==> Fore push to master branch 
	git status

Git Pull------ "git pull origin master"

	Git command that downloads latest changes form the remote respository and automatically merges those changes in the local repository 
	It allowes the developer to bring changes to the local code repository and to update it.
	Git pull is simillar to git fetch followed by GIT merge
	It is used to get files form the remote repository and put a copy in the working directory 
	Merge conflits can occur with git pull, when 2 or more people are working on same piece of code


Git Fetch ---" Git fetch origin"

	Git Fetch command that pull down the code from the remote repository to track branches in the local repository 
	It allows the developer to know the commits pushed by other developers before integrating them with the local repository 
	Git Fetch is simple command 
	It is used to Get files from the remote repository 
	No Merging no conflits

Git commit -m"text"
	The Git commit command is used to tell git to save your changes to the local repository
	Git commit comes before pushing

Git Push -u origin master
	The push command push the commits on the local repository to a remote repository 
	Git push comes after git commit 



	
